- [Instructor] CDI provides support for factory classes
that grant developers greater control over
the instantiation of beans.
This support is accomplished using the Produces annotation,
which allows us to create methods that act as a source
of objects that can be injected by the CDI container.
This maybe necessary in circumstances where
a bean type needs to be determined dynamically at run time,
or when an object requires special instantiation logic.
Let's take a look at how to use the Produces annotation
to handle these situations.
To do that, we're going to create a new class
within our JSF project,
so we'll just open the new dialogue,
select "Class," and then we're going to name this class,
"The inventory service factory."
So we're going to be using a factory
to create an inventory service as opposed to allowing
the CDI container just to instantiate our annotated classes.
We'll go ahead and create the new class,
and then within the class, we're going to create a method
that returns an inventory service,
and I'm going to name this method, "createInstance."
Okay, now within that method, we need to add some logic.
And we'll have a little bit of fun with this.
So, we're going to create a variable
of type inventory service,
and we'll name it "inventoryService."
And I'm just going to assign that to null first.
And then what we're going to do,
is we're going to take a peek at the current date and time,
and we'll get the hour of the day,
and if it's greater than 12, so if we're past noon,
then we're going to use one type of our service,
and if not, we're going to use another type of our service.
So, let's go ahead and if we're after noon, we're going
to use a local inventory service,
and if we're prior to noon, we're going to assign
our inventory service to an instance of
a remote inventory service.
And then what we'll do is within this method,
we can return that inventory service,
and there's our factory implementation,
and then it's important that we add the Produces annotation,
and this is that signal to CDI that,
"Hey, we have this method that is going
"to dynamically create a bean."
Now right now, our application would not run
because we're going to have some ambiguous types,
and that's because we still have our local inventory service
and our remote inventory service annotated
with some bean-defining annotations there.
So what we're going to do is add the alternative annotation,
and basically this annotation instructs CDI not to use
this bean instance unless we explicitly declare it.
So it's a way to remove
a bean from being considered for injection.
So let's go ahead,
apply this to remote inventory service as well.
And then we're going to need to navigate
to our catalog item form bean, and we need to remove
the custom qualifier we placed on the injection point.
And then let's go back,
we need to import to alternative annotation into
our remote inventory service.
So at this point, we are positioned
to use our producer method in order
to dynamically instantiate our inventory service bean
and inject it within to our catalog item form bean.
So let's go to our project and we'll right-click on it,
go to "Run As," and then run on the server,
and we can watch it start up.
Okay, so it appears that our application has started.
Let's maximize our console so we can get a good look
at the output.
And then I'm going to navigate to the application,
and once again we're just going to select
a particular item to enter.
And then we're going to submit the form,
and here you can see that the local inventory service
was selected, and that's because it is after noon
where I'm creating this course.
So if we were before noon,
it would dynamically select the remote inventory service,
so that's a look at how we
can use producer methods within CDI in order
to have some flexibility in how our beans are instantiated
and injected within our Java EE applications.